# multisig_treasury_v2

**Spoiler alert:** This level is a direct continuation of
[Level 03: Multisig Treasury](../03_multisig_treasury/) and contains spoilers
for its solution. We recommend solving this level only after successfully
completing Level 03.

This level once again uses a simple multi-signature treasury. The treasury holds
a certain amount of ADA and is owned by a group of addresses. To release any
portion of the funds, all its owners must agree. To express their will, they
sign a Multisig UTxO that specifies the amount to be released and the
destination address – where the funds should be released. Most importantly, it
accumulates signatures as they can sign it across multiple transactions.

To add more protection to the smart contract, a validation token is introduced.
For the multisig UTxO to be accepted and funds be released, the validation token
must be present within the UTxO. The validation token can only be minted during
the creation of the multisig UTxO, and it validates its datum. To link the
validation token with the multisig UTxO, the token's name must be equal to the
validator hash of the multisig contract.

The statement is similar to the previous Multisig Treasury level. A treasury
UTxO is created, locking 10 ADA for two owners – yourself and an another owner.
To withdraw the funds, you must provide the treasury validator with a multisig
UTxO signed by both owners. However, you lack the private key for the second
address and can not contact him, making it seemingly impossible to obtain his
signature. Can you find a way to bypass the contract and release the funds?

## On-chain code

Two validators and one minting policy are involved in this task:

- `treasury`: Treasury UTxOs contain ADA, and their datum includes a set of
  owners. Withdrawal from this UTxO is possible when a multisig UTxO, containing
  signatures from all treasury owners, is provided.

- `multisig`: Multisig UTxOs contain withdrawal proposals in their datum. A
  proposal specifies the amount, beneficiary, and a set of addresses that need
  to sign it. This UTxO collects signatures one by one, allowing any specified
  address to add its signature in the appropriate transaction. To be validated,
  the UTxO must contain the proper validation token.

- `validation_token`: Minting policy for the validation token. The token can
  only be minted when a multisig UTxO with a correct datum is created, and the
  token must be locked inside the UTxO.

Note that the multisig validator is parameterized with the hash of the treasury
validator, and the treasury contains the hash of the multisig validator in its
datum. This ensures that a multisig can only be used with a valid treasury and
vice versa. The multisig validator is also parametrized with the policy id of
the validation token to ensure that it can only be spent if a valid validation
token is present.

In addition to the validators, `lib/types.ak` contains the datum and the
redeemer specifications for both validators. There is also the `lib/utils.ak`
utils file containing some of the common parser logic to not polute the checks.

## Off-chain code

As usual, create a copy of the `player_template.ts` named `player.ts` that you
can run with the `deno run --allow-net --allow-read ./scripts/run.ts` command.
The code that requires modification lies in this file in the appropriate
section.
