# lending

In this level, you'll analyze a straightforward peer-to-peer lending platform
where borrowers request loans by creating UTxOs specifying the loan amount (only
ADA is supported) and locking collateral tokens to guarantee repayment. Anyone
can fulfill the loan, activating it by sending funds to the borrower. Each loan
must be repaid within the specified time frame, along with the specified
interest.

Upon loan repayment, borrowers can unlock their collateral, and lenders can
claim the repaid ADA. If a loan remains unpaid within the set time frame,
lenders can claim the locked collateral.

Two borrowers have requested multiple loans. Your task is to uncover a hidden
vulnerability and acquire some ADA for yourself. Keep in mind three key
assumptions:

- Collateral tokens locked in lending UTxOs hold no real value for you; your
  sole aim is to acquire ADA. Stealing collateral tokens won't lead to a
  successful pass of the tests. Imagine that there's no market to exchange
  those.
- You seek to obtain more ADA than you started with. Merely gaining interest
  from the loans won't suffice.
- Locked collateral tokens are invaluable to the borrowers. They are certainly
  worth more for them than the value borrowed. Even if they suspect foul play,
  they'll proceed through the lending protocol to reclaim the collateral tokens.

## On-chain code

The on-chain code comprises two files:

- `lending`: This serves as the primary validator responsible for validating all
  interactions involving lending UTxOs. Pay close attention to its datum as it's
  rather intricate, requiring careful parameter configuration for the validator
  to advance through various stages.

- `collateral_token`: This file contains the minting policy for our collateral
  tokens. It's utilized by the borrowers. To ensure uniqueness for each user,
  tokens can only be minted if their asset name matches the hash of the user's
  signature. In other words, you can't mint collateral tokens that are put as
  collateral in someone else's loan request.

## Off-chain code

As usual, create a copy of the `player_template.ts` named `player.ts` that you
can run with the `deno run --allow-net --allow-read ./scripts/run.ts` command.
The code that requires modification lies in this file in the appropriate
section.

Note that the code necessitates interaction among different users. The
`GameData` includes wallets for other users, along with their private keys. **Do
not use these private keys** while solving the level. It is not needed. The only
exception is the `askForRepayment` function, which simulates a borrower seeking
to unlock their collateral tokens. When provided with the correct collateral
token within the lending UTxO, they will repay it in full. Utilize this function
solely to repay the UTxOs created during the setup. Do not exploit any
vulnerability found within this function. Find a smart contract vulnerability
instead.

See the `player_template.ts` for an example of a single interaction between a
borrower and a lender.
