# multisig_treasury

This level introduces a simple multi-signature treasury. The treasury holds a
certain amount of ADA and is owned by a group of addresses. To release any
portion of the funds, all its owners must agree. To express their will, they
sign a Multisig UTxO that specifies the amount to be released and the
destination address – where the funds should be released. Most importantly, it
accumulates signatures as they can sign it across multiple transactions.

In this task, a treasury UTxO is created, locking 10 ADA for two owners –
yourself and an another owner. To withdraw the funds, you must provide the
treasury validator with a multisig UTxO signed by both owners. However, you lack
the private key for the second address and can not contact him, making it
seemingly impossible to obtain his signature. Can you find a way to bypass the
contract and release the funds?

## On-chain code

Two validators are involved in this task:

- `treasury`: Treasury UTxOs contain ADA, and their datum includes a set of
  owners. Withdrawal from this UTxO is possible when a multisig UTxO, containing
  signatures from all treasury owners, is provided.

- `multisig`: Multisig UTxOs contain withdrawal proposals in their datum. A
  proposal specifies the amount, beneficiary, and a set of addresses that need
  to sign it. This UTxO collects signatures one by one, allowing any specified
  address to add its signature in the appropriate transaction.

Note that the treasury validator is parameterized with a hash of the multisig
validator, ensuring that only the corresponding multisig script can unlock the
given treasury.

In addition to the validators, `lib/types.ak` contains the datum, and the
redeemer specifications for both validators. There is also a `lib/utils.ak`
utils file containing some of the common parser logic to not polute the checks.

## Off-chain code

As usual, create a copy of the `player_template.ts` named `player.ts` that you
can run with the `deno run --allow-net --allow-read ./scripts/run.ts` command.
The code that requires modification lies in this file in the appropriate
section.

We recommend examining the rest of the off-chain code, especially the `setup()`
function, which can aid in understanding the setup of this level and provide
useful examples of how to interact with the validators. This approach is also
recommended for later levels.
